[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Have you begun
smelling something fishy when
you read that roughly half
of the kids in school in
the US are being drugged
for some kind of
mood or personality
disorder or another?
Well, you're among millions
of people beginning to wake up
to what amounts to
a medical conspiracy
of gigantic proportions.
Investigative
reporter Jon Rappoport
says that the plan
is simple: we're
put onto drugs from the
cradle to the grave.
And part of the successful
implementation of that plan
is to see that we are compliant.
Right?
>>JON RAPPOPORT: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Taking a lot of drugs.
Entire nations are being
drugged at this time
so that we can remain
compliant, would you say?
>>RAPPOPORT: That's
what I've concluded
after looking into
this for 30 years,
that that's exactly the program.
People need to
understand, first of all,
that these drugs that
the kids are put on,
they're not diagnosed
with anything
that's actually tested.
For example, ADHD.
People say, well, ADHD.
We have now five million
kids in the United States.
No, we don't have anything.
What we have is a
conspiracy to produce
a definition of a so-called
mental disorder that
has no chemical or
biological test of any kind
to diagnose it.
It's all done by a
menu of behaviors
such that almost anybody
could be diagnosed with ADHD,
and they are.
And then they're drugged.
And these drugs are dangerous.
>>REGINA: They are.
And along that path there is
the new-- what is it called?
The DMS, I think--
>>RAPPOPORT: DSM.
>>REGINA: The DSM.
The new DSM is supposed
to be coming out.
Please explain to people what
the DSM is, why it's important,
what's going to happen when the
new, improved, and upgraded one
comes out, what this
means to our lives
in terms of the world of mental
health, which many people are
having to interface
with in their families.
>>RAPPOPORT: DSM, Diagnostic
and Statistical Manual,
Is the Bible of the American
Psychiatric Association
that lists all official
mental disorders that
are defined by committees
that are set up
of psychiatrists to sit
around and say, hmm,
shall we widen the
definition of bipolar?
Shall we try to make it thinner?
What do we do?
They're not talking
about chemical tests,
biological tests,
any kind of test.
They're talking
about-- I don't know.
They're talking about
arbitrary definitions.
There are 297 now of these
official mental disorders.
It's billable, you see?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>RAPPOPORT: Let's
get down to it.
A psychiatrist can say, well,
I diagnosed a patient with,
oh, let's see here, oppositional
defiance disorder, type 2ZQVR.
Don't forget to bill on-- yes.
And then they get paid.
>>REGINA: And maybe the kid just
has a rebellious nature, right?
>>RAPPOPORT: Just has
a rebellious nature,
he's allergic to something
coming in the window
and it gets him upset.
He's eating GMO corn and
it's making him crazy.
You know, it could be anything.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>RAPPOPORT: Could be
absolutely anything.
>>REGINA: Nobody
has a diagnosis.
Then what happens?
>>RAPPOPORT: Then
come the drugs.
The drugs are specific
to the diagnosis.
So for, say, bipolar, we get
Lithium, we get Valproate.
Now these are extremely heavy
drugs, especially for kids.
I mean, there are life
threatening problems
connected with
these drugs to give.
So here are the psychiatrists
wending their merry way
through life, making
these diagnoses.
And the DSM is the foundation.
It's the Bible.
It's the thing that quote,
everybody can refer to to say,
we know this exists
because it's in the DSM.
There it is.
We've defined it.
It has a label.
It has drugs that
go along with it.
We get paid for
diagnosing it this way.
And so there's all
these people out there,
millions and millions of
Americans, that are duped.
Complete.
Their complete dupes.
I don't care what their
level of education,
I don't care if they have no
education or they have PhDs
and they think they're the most
brilliant people in the world.
None of these 297
official mental disorders
has ever had a diagnostic test
of any kind to make it real.
And I'm talking about
from the beginning.
Schizophrenia all the
way up to-- whatever
you want-- the latest and
greatest expansion of bipolar
disorder.
So in 2013, we're going to have
the fifth edition of the DSM,
probably in the late spring.
It's going to include
more disorders.
New disorders.
>>REGINA: I mean, they have
to make this stuff up now.
They have to be just
making this stuff up.
>>RAPPOPORT: They always did.
They are now.
And they'll continue to do it.
But of course they
don't see it that way.
Except I've got the quotes.
>>REGINA: Give us a couple.
>>RAPPOPORT: Russell Barkley.
Very famous psychiatrist,
neurology professor,
Massachusetts.
Impeccable credentials.
PBS FRONTLINE, the show was,
"Does ADHD Really Exist?"
So the questioner
says to him, well,
people say it
doesn't really exist
because there isn't
any real test.
There's no blood test.
There's no saliva test.
There's no any kind of test.
And he goes, oh dear.
Oh dear.
If we needed-- you
don't understand
science, my good fellow,
how it really operates.
If we needed a test for every
one of these mental disorders,
there would be no
mental disorders
because we have no
tests for any of them.
And therefore,
you see how absurd
it is to say that we're
unscientific, because how could
we publish a Bible called
the DSM with 297 of these
when they don't exist?
So it's all circular reasoning.
>>REGINA: That sounds like
something out of "Alice
In Wonderland."
>>RAPPOPORT: Well,
everything about this
is straight out of Alice
in Wonderland, you see.
And people say, well, I
know a guy who's crazy.
We all know people
that are nuts.
So are you saying that they're
not nuts, that's not true.
They are nuts.
And people fail to recognize
the difference between saying
somebody's off,
somebody's crazy.
Doesn't know what they're doing.
They're flipping their lid.
All the kinds of
phrases that we use
for people-- he's
not feeling good.
He's lousy.
He doesn't know where-- he's
at float at sea in his life.
He has severe problems,
blah, blah, blah.
All of that colloquial
conversation, that's one thing.
Yes, people suffer.
They have problems.
Serious things go wrong.
Some of them are
actually nutritional.
>>REGINA: There is paranoia,
and schizophrenia does exist.
All of it exists.
>>RAPPOPORT: It exists in
common colloquial language, OK?
To say somebody's paranoid, OK.
And one could, in any given
case, one could say, well, hey.
We fixed this guy up
nutritionally, and guess what?
He doesn't have the
problem anymore.
Or guess what?
He had some severe allergies.
This guy really
does have problems
and he doesn't know what to do.
And we're trying to help him.
Hey, that's real too.
But now to say, hmm.
We want to fit you into
these labels, 297 of them,
and we have drugs
for all of them.
And they all have
severe adverse effects.
And some of them will
get you new diagnoses
of new mental
disorders because we're
going to interpret those effects
of the drugs as new disorders.
And then we're going
to drug you more.
>>REGINA: So again, we
have some backward thinking
going on there.
They back into a diagnosis
based on the fact
that they've already
created the drug.
>>RAPPOPORT: OK, now
that's the next thing.
Right.
With Prozac, they
discovered that it
changed serotonin levels.
Serotonin is a neurotransmitter.
So they said, OK.
It increases the
amount of serotonin.
Therefore let's
define depression
as a deficit of serotonin.
Backwards.
Totally background.
As we discussed off camera,
sort of like saying,
well, the reason you have
the flu, my good man,
is that you have a
deficit of Tamiflu.
>>REGINA: Vaccine.
>>RAPPOPORT: And we're
going to remedy that
by giving you the drug.
And then you won't
have the flu anymore.
And you go, what causes the flu?
A deficit of Tamiflu.
Some serious research
has gone into this.
Well, that's like
the same with Prozac.
They define these
things backwards.
They find a drug, they
see what the drug does,
and then they define
the condition.
So this is a
pseudoscience psychiatry
that has been making
it up all along,
and they're finally
now getting exposed.
And I'm one of the people
who has been, I have to say,
relentless over the
last 10 or 15 years
in doing this because I
see what it does to people.
They get a diagnosis.
First of all, there's the
effect of thinking, OK,
I have a mental disorder.
All right.
Now the stigma is removed.
Hillary Clinton waved her wand
and now there's no more stigma.
And everybody accepts the idea
that this is just like diabetes
or whatever.
Fine.
But the person has
a diagnosis, OK?
Now everything is
about struggling
in their life to
regain normalcy.
The ceiling has been lowered.
And now everybody's
in treatment.
Everybody's trying to regain
a sense of balance in life
and whatever instead of
no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
This person has problems, yes.
Let's find out what's going
on in the case of that person.
This is not some
collectivist-- or shouldn't
be-- situation where we say,
oh, symptom one, two, three,
four fixed.
He's got this one.
We bill for it.
Give him the drugs.
Next, come in.
You've got-- that
is mass diagnosis.
That's not looking
at the human being.
And the effects of the drugs
are absolutely devastating.
I mean, people on the so-called
neuroleptics like Haldol
and some of the
others, Stelazine.
>>REGINA: What do those do?
>>RAPPOPORT: Motor brain damage.
It's called tardive dyskinesia.
It's basically motor.
You know, tremors and twitches.
>>REGINA: It is used
for epilepsy and-- what
is it used for?
>>RAPPOPORT:
Originally it was used
for people who were supposedly
severe schizophrenics.
In other words, psychotics.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>RAPPOPORT: Now it's being
used on kids, young kids.
>>REGINA: For what?
>>RAPPOPORT:
Risperdal, for example.
Bipolar.
Sneaking it in the door.
Here's a playbook for you.
And people out there, some
of them will be able to say,
this happened to me.
Kid's sitting in school.
He's fidgeting, he's bored.
Whatever.
We don't know why.
>>REGINA: For good
reason in most cases.
>>RAPPOPORT: Bored, whatever.
OK.
Doctor.
Oh yes.
You got these-- you
do this, you do that.
Yes, you kicked your leg out.
You look out the window.
OK.
ADHD.
Boom.
Ritalin.
That's speed.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>RAPPOPORT: So immediately
this cheap form of speed
makes the kid able to
concentrate for the first
maybe few days, few
weeks, whatever it is.
Differs.
Then if he keeps taking it,
goes into a speed crash.
Could be sudden, could
be gradual, but down.
Fatigue, out of it.
Mother takes him back
to the psychiatrist.
Oh, now we're seeing the
emergence of a new condition.
Clinical depression.
That have anything to do
with the drug, doctor?
Ritalin?
No, completely new condition.
Prozac.
Gives kid Prozac.
Causes mania,
among other things.
Woo, whoa.
So now the kid is
bouncing off the walls.
He's taking Ritalin,
he's taking Prozac.
And he's going up and down
and in and out and whenever.
Back to the doctor again.
Oh, more precise
definition in what's
wrong with your child
is bipolar disease,
otherwise we used to know as
manic depression, up and down.
Now we start to give you
Valproate, Lithium, and so on.
This is chemical warfare, right?
OK, now that at this point
the doctor can and does
sometimes slip in Risperdal,
an anti-psychotic.
So now you could get a kid
who's just fidgeting in school
and say two years
later, whatever,
he's got brain damage.
Motor brain damage.
Permanent motor brain
damage from Risperdal.
So now his life is destroyed.
But now the shrinks, of
course, they can't admit this.
They know these effects exist
but they won't admit it.
So now, oh no.
It's the mental illness.
It's the disease.
I'm sorry to tell the parents.
We're seeing rapid deterioration
these days and more and more
of these cases of so and so and
bipolar and blah, blah, blah,
blah.
No.
They're destroying
kids' brains with drugs
on basis of diagnoses
that have no proof.
>>REGINA: OK, let's start with
where the problem often begins.
In school, right?
>>RAPPOPORT: Right.
>>REGINA: A teacher is not
appreciative of the way
someone may be
behaving in class.
And maybe someone is being
very disruptive in class,
for example.
How does it start from there?
What is the teacher interface?
They can't diagnose anything,
but there is a very big teacher
component of this when
it comes to the kids.
How does that work?
>>RAPPOPORT: People are guided.
They learn through little
weekend seminars and memos
and training to look
for signs of, you see,
and in this case, ADHD, and
to make recommendations.
So the kid is first sent
to the school counselor.
Disruptive kid.
Why don't you see the counselor?
Counselor says, sit down.
And bah, bah, bah, bah, and
they have a little conversation.
Counselor, need to bring
their parents in here
and we have a recommendation
to see the child psychiatrist.
It's like a funnel.
It's basically the same
problem the teachers
have run into forever.
What do you do with a kid
who's messing things up
or who doesn't respond
for whatever reason?
Well, there could be millions
of different causes for that,
including the teacher.
But it's the culture.
Starting-- let's call it 1960s--
there was a much greater push
to be aware of these
behaviors as a teacher
because they could be a
sign of ADHD, you see?
And all the teachers
kind of go, oh.
A mental disorder.
Who knew, you know?
They don't question this
kind of thing, right?
Dull.
Instead of saying, who says
this is a mental disorder?
Who says this kid who's drawing
great pictures in class,
my class, who doesn't seem
to care about geography
or whatever, seems to
have a talent here?
When is a teacher
going to say that?
And now they want
to shuck him off
into something that involves
a diagnosis and drugs?
Wait a minute.
No.
Teacher's not going
to make these waves.
>>REGINA: No, they're not.
And so really it almost
becomes, at this point,
a war on independent
thinking, a war on creativity.
A war on any kind of
expression of energy
that is not conventional
in the way the teacher
needs a child to respond, like
a little robot, automaton,
soldier, whatever
you want to call it.
I obviously have a bone about
some of the educational system
myself.
But once we start being
herded down that chute
and you have half of the kids
in the nation on drugs, what's
the automatic extension of that?
>>RAPPOPORT: Sure.
If Nikola Tesla, Einstein,
and people like that
were going to school
today, Royal Rife,
they'd be loaded up with drugs.
They'd all be drugged.
Now the question would only
be, could they overcome it?
And there's a good chance
that they wouldn't be able to.
This is chemical warfare.
It's like saying, talent,
talent, talent, drug it.
OK?
That's when we get naked about
this, what's really going on.
>>REGINA: That's a
much larger agenda.
>>RAPPOPORT: That is.
Now it's true.
There is a class of kids,
a whole lot of kids,
whose behavior in
classrooms is caused
by things like junk
food, severe nutrition
deficiencies,
allergies and so forth.
>>REGINA: Blood sugar
imbalances among other things
like your wife talks about.
>>RAPPOPORT: Exactly.
And to be able to do great
nutrition with these kids,
they bounce back.
It's like, whoa, boy, I'm back.
Hey, I'm alive, you know?
That's one big situation.
But the other big situation
we're dealing with is-- no.
Kids who-- they're
interested in things
that don't have to do
with the classroom.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>RAPPOPORT: And some of
those kids have major talents.
And now we're going to drug
that talent into oblivion.
This is the
destruction of society.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
I want to get a historical
perspective on this.
OK.
Let's go back.
You mentioned Royal
Raymond Rife a moment ago.
In his day, I mean,
everyone-- people
that are familiar with him will
remember the famous picture
where he's in his tuxedo along
with a number of other MDs,
and they had announced that
this was the end of cancer.
They had been able, through
his frequency device,
to cure cancer.
And they were.
They were doing it in hospitals
and clinics, all over.
This was 80 years ago, right?
70, 80 years ago.
>>RAPPOPORT: Right.
>>REGINA: Now of
course Rockefeller,
who was very much influential in
the establishing of Big Pharma,
the Rockefeller family came in.
And he was run out of town.
Basically he was a
destroyed, broken man.
As I recall, Royal Raymond
Rife died an alcoholic.
>>RAPPOPORT: Right.
>>REGINA: They killed his
technology and they killed him.
That's the medical side
of where that story began
with Big Pharma's intrusion
into what were very successful,
natural types of remedies at the
time for a myriad of diseases.
What is the equivalent
of that in psychiatry?
>>RAPPOPORT: Well the
equivalent, I'm afraid,
is what we're
talking about here.
>>REGINA: And when
did it start though?
When did things start changing?
When did Big Pharma start
reaching into this area?
Give us some historical context.
>>RAPPOPORT: OK.
We could go back an awfully long
way, but let's peg it at 1970.
1970, psychiatry is dying
as a profession in America.
Why?
Because all forms of
psychology have suddenly
sprung up out of
nowhere in the '60s.
You want to try
this, you want to try
that, you want to go to
this kind of a therapist
and talk about
this, and so forth.
Or would you like to pay an
exorbitant amount of money
and go see an MD psychiatrist
and sit there and talk
about your problems with
a guy who quite possibly
is extraordinarily dull,
extraordinarily anal and over
organized, and can't
give you anything?
So fewer and fewer people were
going to see psychiatrists.
>>REGINA: Well, sure.
Because the '60s was an
explosion of creativity
and exploration,
experimentation.
OK.
So that makes sense.
So we're setting it up now.
>>RAPPOPORT: So what is
psychiatry going to do?
The journals are failing.
The American
Psychiatric Association
is starting to go broke.
The psychiatrists themselves
are thinking about going out
of business or are
going out of business.
It's a very difficult
time for them.
But a deal was struck.
And this deal is overt.
I mean, this is not talking in
masked language here, you know.
Signals and so forth.
Big Pharma, big psychiatries.
Big Pharma says to
big psychiatry--
which is getting
smaller and looking
more tattered-- we'll
bankroll your profession.
We're going to bankroll
the medical journals,
the medical conferences.
We're going to spend all kinds
of ad dollars in your journals.
We're going to pump up the
whole profession, the training
and schools and internships
and residencies for psychiatry.
The profession will bloom
again because of our money.
Really?
Yeah.
This is what we want
you to do, psychiatry.
We want you to prove--
and if you can't prove,
basically say you've proved--
that all mental disorders
result from chemical
imbalances in the brain.
Talk therapy is useless.
All this other nonsense
is completely irrelevant.
All that has to be done--
>>REGINA: And this
happened literally?
>>RAPPOPORT: Yeah.
All that has to be done is
to correct the imbalance.
And both of us
together will promote
this idea, this
absurd, insane idea.
Because nobody really knows
what is the normal level
of functioning
chemically of the brain.
There is no baseline, you see.
There's only oh, obviously, bad
chemical imbalance, you know?
Everybody's an
expert now, you see.
Now that the
propaganda hurricane
has descended on the nation
for the past 40 years
starting in 1970, everybody
now says, oh, obviously the boy
has a chemical imbalance.
Yeah, sure.
What'd you do, stick a needle
in his brain and measure it?
Everybody's an expert now.
Oh, chemical imbalance, yes.
That was the hype.
That was the designated
PR propaganda hype
that built this empire
of the deal, the embrace,
between Big Pharma
and psychiatry.
And the deal continued.
You, psychiatry, you will
do the studies, the research
that quote, prove that
one after another, you
have found chemical
imbalances, you say,
in each one of these designated
mental disorders that
has no diagnostic
test at all-- still
doesn't have a diagnostic test.
But you know it's a
chemical imbalance
even though you
can't test for it.
And we, Big Pharma,
will produce the drugs
to normalize the
chemical imbalance.
Paradise has arrived.
We'll sell the drugs.
We'll both make a fortune.
And this will be the history
of psychiatry from then on.
And that's exactly
what's happened.
That's the story.
>>REGINA: Were there certain
universities or institutions
that were particularly
prominent at this time
that started becoming research
facilities, for example?
>>RAPPOPORT: Yeah, Harvard.
Sure, that's always
right up there.
But it wasn't that somebody
went to Harvard necessarily
and said, here's the deal.
Somebody went to any
university and said,
here's the grant money.
This is the kind of
research we want you to do.
>>REGINA: Right.
I had the experience
of looking--
and you've seen many of these.
I won't name the university.
But I was doing an investigative
piece on some of the practices
they had going.
Particularly disposal of
environmentally dangerous
substances like
radioactive things
that were literally found
in garbage cans and such.
So I had to start digging
through some of the documents
and started looking
at the funding
list for the various departments
and the projects that
were being funded.
And honestly, I don't think
I found any research project
study that wasn't
funded by an entity that
had a direct gain in it.
I don't think I saw any
independently funded studies.
And this was across
the board, a variety
of different departments.
So in your research as an
investigative journalist,
what have you found?
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: Shall I
say it's a ditto?
It's a ditto kind
of story and worse?
>>RAPPOPORT: Yeah, worse.
>>REGINA: I mean, this
is really criminal.
>>RAPPOPORT: Let's say I'm
a pharmaceutical company.
Big time, OK?
Here's my drug.
It hasn't been
approved yet for use.
I know it's a billion
dollar seller if I can just
get it approved because I've
got the PR machine in back
of it that's going
to do that, right?
So I fund 16 studies with
human volunteers in this drug.
13 of these studies turn out
to be a disaster for my drug.
Drug doesn't do anything.
In fact, it has adverse effects.
>>REGINA: In fact, might that
be the source of those little
disclaimers that run
across the bottom
of each ad on television?
>>RAPPOPORT: Maybe.
I think it's even
worse than that.
>>REGINA: Oh, God.
>>RAPPOPORT: And so it performs
worse than a sugar pill.
You know, far worse.
OK.
So I don't publish those.
In fact, nobody
knows about those.
You need an army to
get access to those.
But there's three studies
that have been manipulated
and massaged and so
forth to look good.
Those are the studies
that are published
in the medical
journals, and those
are the studies that
are submitted to the FDA
so that this drug
will get approved.
And everybody gives nods
and winks and nudges,
and the drug gets approved.
OK, now what the other 13
studies prove pretty much
was that this drug was
going to be a disaster.
Not only ineffective,
it was going
to destroy people
one way or another.
Chew up the liver, whatever.
>>REGINA: Harmful,
harmful side effects.
Yeah.
>>RAPPOPORT: OK.
So a year or two down
the line, three or four,
now we begin to get reports.
Ooh, lo and behold, there seems
to be a problem here, whatever.
And by the time the
investigation comes
and the company issues
a voluntary recall
of the drug for
humanitarian purposes--
>>REGINA: But how much
been made up to that point?
>>RAPPOPORT: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>RAPPOPORT: So they've
made, let's say, $6 billion
up to that, OK?
Now they have a slush
fund with $2.5 in it,
and they know pretty much
that's what the fine is going
to be that they're going to pay.
Oh, it's a fine, $2.5.
OK.
Joe, write the check.
How much profit
we got left over?
Good.
OK.
Case closed.
Onto the next new drug.
>>REGINA: That's how it works.
>>RAPPOPORT: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Absolutely.
And not only that,
it couldn't work
as well as it does if it
weren't for the partnership
with the media.
The media has to be
the one to create
our need, our
impression, and our need
for this particular
substance to begin with
or we wouldn't be going
and asking for it.
I know, granted,
sometimes we just
take the words of the doctor.
But oftentimes we'll go there
for the over the counter stuff
all on our own and request it.
So I want to talk to you
about media involvement
in this whole story
when we come back.
We're going to take
just a little break.
We'll be right back.
We are back.
And we're going to
be talking about,
right now, about how
media is involved
in creating the
impression that we
need these drugs in our lives.
So you've got a story to tell.
>>RAPPOPORT: Here's an
article that I wrote about,
Dr. Allen Frances, one of
the most famous psychiatrists
in America.
In fact, the DSM that
we're referring to,
the Bible of psychiatry, he was
in charge of putting together
the fourth edition of this.
In other words, he was over
everybody, all the committees
and subcommittees and whatever.
So years after this
he's being interviewed
by a reporter from
"Wired" magazine.
And he says, you know,
you can't precisely
define a mental disorder.
It's all bleep.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: And he wrote it.
>>RAPPOPORT: He was in charge of
putting it all together, right?
>>REGINA: He said this?
>>RAPPOPORT: He said this.
>>REGINA: This
should make us all
have pause for thought on this.
>>RAPPOPORT: OK.
And, I mean, this was the guy.
So I wrote an
article about this.
And basically I said, is this
the biggest liar in America?
And that was my article.
Or I could have said, is
this the biggest hypocrite
in America?
So I submitted it, because
a friend said I should,
to the "Columbia
Journalism Review."
Or Review, whatever it is.
And of course they publish
stories about media.
They sent it back
rejected and they said,
the reason that we're not
really considering this
is because this is not
a story about the media.
I said, what?
This was all about
a story of the media
refusing to look
at this published
interview with the most
famous psychiatrist in America
who basically destroyed
his own complete work
on the DSM, the Bible.
It would be like somebody
coming along and saying hey,
I wrote the Bible,
but it's all a lie.
And now the media's
not covering it.
"Wired" magazine covered it,
but it never went up from there
into the higher echelons of
the media that suddenly cause
scandals and congressional
hearings to happen.
And this, whoever the city
it was from the "Columbia
Journalism Review"
said well, we only
publish stories about media.
This has nothing
to do with media.
It has everything
So that leads into
the idea, yes.
The media push maybe
could be breakthroughs.
We say we're on the
verge of genetic basis
for this disorder is likely
to be proven in the next five
years.
Just around the corner is
coming further research
that's going to make the
current generation of drugs
for depression be superseded
by something much better.
You know, it's like
a cheerleading squad
for the pharmaceutical companies
and for the psychiatrists.
It's all a mirage.
Maybe, could be, we
think, next breakthrough,
already fantastic results with.
And then on top of that, scandal
drug, scandal here, there,
but nothing tying
it all together.
What does it all mean, the
story, of that drug, this drug?
You know, what about this
researcher at Cambridge
who's suddenly come
forward and said,
obviously the antidepressants
are causing people
to kill themselves
and kill other people.
This is not a myth.
This is real.
So now the media sort of gets
a hold of that and they say,
well, one psychiatrist
in England
believes something much
darker is going on.
Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
End of story.
>>REGINA: End of story.
Right.
Killed.
OK, so now let's
go up the family
tree a little bit higher.
I've seen those graphs of
corporate control in the US,
as you have.
And when we start looking at
some of the parent companies
as to why there would be a
consistency in the stories
of the media and what
the Big Pharma is doing
and psychiatry is doing,
there's a reason for that.
I mean essentially,
all the power
has been reduced to just
a handful of corporations.
>>RAPPOPORT: Right.
And those corporations
are intimately
linked to Big
Pharma corporations.
Because you can't make
a move in big media
without it reflecting back
to advertising dollars
paid for by Big Pharma.
So if you cause ripples in
Big Pharma from big media,
they're going to come get you.
I mean, I know a guy who used
to work at a major L.A. paper
said to me, we published a
story critical of Big Pharma.
Next day executives from one of
our pharmaceutical advertisers
just marched into the
editorial offices,
marched into the editor's
office, shut the door,
read him the riot act.
Basically, you want our money?
You shut up.
We don't care whether
the article's true.
We're not here for that.
It's our money.
It's our advertising.
Play ball, or we take our
money and go somewhere else.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
That's the reason
I brought it up
is because anybody that watches
any mass media is certainly
going to notice the
preponderance of drug ads,
especially in
primetime programming.
This isn't an accident.
It's not the only industry
that has any money left.
There is collusion happening
at a very high level
between the two.
And definitely, thank
you for your story.
It's worth bringing up.
OK.
Now we're talking another
really big, big, big story.
You could say collusion and you
could explain how that works.
And that is Obamacare.
I mean, I know a lot of people
watching this are liberal
and looking forward
to the justice that
is embedded within that new
program set to take effect
in 2014.
>>RAPPOPORT: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
OK.
So let's talk about Obamacare.
I know it's one of
your favorite subjects.
>>RAPPOPORT: Sure.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: And we
can narrow it down
and keep it specific
to health care.
But really, we're talking
something more general here.
>>RAPPOPORT: We are.
>>REGINA: Well, how does the
DSM interface with Obamacare?
Is this coming out in
alignment for a reason?
Is the timing--
>>RAPPOPORT: Plug it in.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>RAPPOPORT:
Obamacare is basically
like a complicated
insurance company.
They're going to
cover certain things
and they're not going
to cover other things.
That's what an
insurance company does.
If you walk into
a doctor's office
and you go blah, blah,
blah, and the doctor goes,
blah, blah, blah, the
diagnosis is either
going to be covered
in your insurance
or it's not going to be.
Well, it's the same
with Obamacare.
Except in the case of
Obamacare, the Department
of Health and Human
Services-- which
is an executive branch
cabinet post-- in collusion
you can bet with
pharmaceutical companies
is going to make up a master
list of all-- all diseases,
disorders that exist that will
be covered under Obamacare,
and what permitted treatments
exist for those conditions.
So it's like, OK.
We diagnosis this.
OK, we give that drug.
OK, we give that.
And as time goes by,
years up the road from now
assuming that this survives
the constitutional challenges,
it's going to get tighter
and tighter and tighter.
It's going to be a
robotic system, basically.
More and more and more and more.
So they're going to plug the
DSM directly into Obamacare.
In other words, however
many mental disorders
officially exist-- and
let's say 400-- OK,
if you're a psychiatrist you can
diagnose any one of these 400
and you get paid.
But of course, you've
got to prescribe
the drugs that are involved.
Big Pharma's really--
they're into Obamacare.
They see it as a gigantic
amount of profit for them.
They're not going
to let the slide by.
So suppose we have a
subset of physicians
in northern California who
are making diagnoses here.
But what are they doing here
with herbs and so forth?
Let's look into that.
Let's send in a team to
find out what's going on.
Let's plant a few
patients in these officers
and see, why are they diverging
from permitted treatments
under the plan for
the future of America?
And they discover what's
going on, and boom.
They can kick these doctors
out of the plan, in which case
they're really excommunicated
into the outer darkness
because the plan
is all there is.
And the patients now can't
get the same kind of treatment
they could before.
So what we're seeing
is, it's going
to be lockstep conformity more
and more as we go up the line.
It's going to try to
eliminate alternatives.
That's Big Pharma's-- one
of their big ambitions.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
To eradicate it.
Now how does this interface
with a broken economy?
I mean, really.
How is Obamacare and the fact
that this nation is way beyond
broke work together?
And when you're talking
about this narrowing
down and the restriction of
what will and won't be covered,
I start thinking economic
factors right away.
>>RAPPOPORT: You should because
the unfunded liabilities,
as they like to call
them, of Obamacare,
if you begin to
crunch the numbers,
it's sort of like watching
two gigantic trucks
on a very narrow highway
heading toward each other.
And you see it
coming, and there's
going to be an explosion.
Because yes.
Oh, we're printing money.
Yes.
That's what we're
in business for.
We just keep on printing.
We now have QE3, which basically
means we print forever.
And here's Obamacare looming up.
It's going to be
sucking up trillions.
Where are we going
to get that from?
Oh, don't worry about it.
Everybody's whistling in the
dark, but here come the trucks.
So that explosion could
happen regardless.
But you're absolutely right.
There will be a narrowing
down of what's coverable
and how it's going to be
covered and with how much
wait time it's going to be
covered as the system gets
more and more financially broke.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>RAPPOPORT: And as it
becomes more untenable
because it's so complicated
and because people
that are enmeshed in
it can't carry it out
because they don't even
know all the rules,
because all the rules
haven't been written.
So there's thievery, theft,
corruption, incompetence.
The usual government
nonsense and bureaucracy.
Which adds to even worsening
the whole situation, so bad.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And so now you have
people that are now
wanting to go outside
the system, obviously.
The system isn't going to
be-- for all of the people
watching this, I can't imagine
there's a single person
watching that hasn't already
gone outside the system
and isn't going to need to.
Now first of all, we
won't have a choice.
We have to participate
in Obamacare, right?
>>RAPPOPORT: Right.
>>REGINA: Or we suffer a fine.
>>REGINA: OK.
That's different from
insurance of times past.
Before it just got
swept up somewhere else.
But here, you will
be fined to do that.
Now the doctors are going to
be watched more closely as you
said, so they're not
going to be able.
This whole movement
toward beginning
integrative and complementary
therapies that's happening,
we'll be seeing an end to
that is what you're saying.
>>RAPPOPORT: Not right
away, but eventually yes.
That would be my prediction.
You're going to
see it narrowing.
Oh no.
We can't do that.
Streamlined medicine.
They'll PR that.
This is streamlined.
Yeah, they're going to be
carving away and eliminating
as much as they can.
>>REGINA: So what happens now
to the now growing millions
and millions of
disenfranchised people
that are not going to be
so on board with Obamacare?
I mean, you can do what
people like myself do now.
You just pay your HMO in
case you get into a car wreck
and have to be
stitched back together.
But for health care, I
wouldn't use that system.
I'm actually afraid of
that system and watching
what they do, right?
So we have to pay a premium
to go outside the system.
Are these practitioners
that are working
outside the system and
people like your lovely wife,
you know, naturopath--
how are they
going to function with
Obamacare in place?
How's that going to happen?
I mean, there will be
no insurance billing,
I would assume, for any
of these people, right?
So they're out of
that stream of income.
>>RAPPOPORT: A lot
on them have been out
of that stream for a long time.
OK, people have to
recognize there's today.
There's five years.
There's 10 years in
the future, right?
So I've been at this for
30 years investigating
these people.
So it's not difficult
for me to predict
where things are headed.
For example who, in 1952
or 1953 when a drug called
Ritalin somehow first appeared
on the scene and a few kids
were being treated with it,
who would have predicted
that all these years later,
more than five million children
in America, mostly
boys, are suddenly
diagnosed with something that
has no test whatsoever called
ADHD and are drugged with
this thing which is actually
amphetamine and that
nobody seems to mind it?
And that's just for beginners.
So to be able to see up the
road is what I'm talking about,
where this is going to go, OK?
And what I think
is going to happen,
at first-- there's
a lot of people
that are going to say,
well, I'll pay the penalty
or whatever it
is, and I'll still
go outside and see my
alternative whatever.
OK, fine.
But as the generations--
young people get old.
Where's this really leading?
Well, there's a tremendous
propaganda machine
behind this whole
idea of Obamacare.
Loyalty to the system.
Be a part of the system.
Be in the system.
And that person who is outside
there in the underground
has a kid.
And that kid grows up.
And maybe that kid is now
like, what was my mother doing?
That was like back in the '60s.
They were all
smoking that stuff.
But now I'm living
the normal life.
I want to be part of the system.
Well, the system is Obamacare.
Well, wonderful.
Sign me up.
And gradually there's
attrition from the underground,
the outside underground,
because more people
are moved into the system.
It's like what happened
to corporate America.
More and more people
discovered as the '60s
turned into the '70s,
the '80s, and the '90s,
that if you were not going
to join corporate America,
you were going to have to be
extremely clever, extremely
smart, extremely
resourceful, and make
your own way in the world.
And so fewer and fewer people
were willing to drop out.
And would that have been
predictable in 1967?
Absolutely not.
In the middle of some gigantic
protest against the Vietnam
War?
This is forever, baby.
No, it's not.
The next generation doesn't
look at it that way.
In fact, because I lived
close to UCLA in the 1970s,
as soon as the Vietnam
War ended-- and UCLA
was one of the hotbeds of
revolt during the Vietnam War--
a switch was thrown at UCLA.
It was like Vietnam
never happened.
And all of a sudden
the students were
talking about my niche
in the job market.
What am I going to
do when I graduate?
>>REGINA: Are you saying this
was a natural kind of response
or a reaction to, or was
it coming from elsewhere?
>>RAPPOPORT: I think it
was the response of people
who were exhausted and
found a good reason to stop
rebelling against the system.
That's what a juggernaut does.
And here's a juggernaut called
National Health Insurance,
or Obamacare.
And it's going to keep on
going down the superhighway.
And as time passes more
people will collect to it
and fewer people will
take on the drama
of a life outside the system.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>RAPPOPORT: And I think that
makes sense to a lot of people,
and they can see that.
It's not tomorrow, but
it's going to happen.
>>REGINA: But what
about a more quiet kind
of underground rebellion
that could take place?
Where it's not so
much fighting, it's
simply more ignoring the system.
Because again, I think
most of the people
watching this are already
prepared to simply
quietly continue taking
matters into their own hands.
Could there come a point where
there's enough critical mass
that something could
develop alongside it,
alongside Obamacare, something
of a significant nature?
Or will it always
be people looking
for each other in an
underground world?
>>RAPPOPORT: The latter I
think is where it's headed now.
I don't think it's
going to be collegial
where Big Pharma's
going to say, all right.
Let's give 'em
$100 billion a year
for alternative whatever
out there, right?
We still have our
trillion dollar business.
No.
No, they want everything.
And they see a
way of getting it.
So they're going
to do whatever they
can to marginalize
everybody else.
I don't think it's going to
be friendly and collegial.
But I agree with you.
There's a lot of people
you see who are saying,
oh, this is silly.
I'm just going to
quietly drop out
and nobody's going to notice.
And I'll pay my fine.
Everything is going to be good.
I agree now, yeah.
But do you have kids?
What's the next
generation going to do?
What's the future going to do?
This is how it
changes over time.
And then the people who are
on the outside, you see, there
are fewer of them.
Which means that there are fewer
resources to accommodate them
because it's a
game of economics.
How many practitioners
are going to be
out there if instead
of, let's say,
20 million people in America
that are seeking alternatives,
it's only 10.
>>REGINA: Right.
Right.
And you and I talked
off camera about this.
This is really
going to come down
to more-- this is almost
a spiritual crisis that's
going on.
That is what it is.
>>RAPPOPORT: That's what it is.
>>REGINA: And here
you have medicine
which is, the way
it is right now
is a wholly materialistic
view of what a human body is,
essentially meat with chemicals
and functions and such
rather than the
incredibly complex,
multi-dimensional beings
that we actually are.
And again, millions
and millions of people
are waking up to this reality
that they're a lot more
than this bag of
bones, so to speak.
And when we were talking
about this off camera
we were sharing some information
about a particular drawing that
is very rare that I had found.
But before we get to that,
you had an experience
in your own right in
Southern California.
You went into a vault.
And I would like you to
explain a little bit about what
you were doing, because this
is central to the story.
If we can't understand
we're more than simply
flesh, bones, and
chemicals, we're
not going to find our
way out of this mess.
>>RAPPOPORT: That's right.
And that's the
ultimate rebellion
against where we're at.
Because we've been talking about
psychiatry for almost an hour
now.
And that is a pseudo scientist's
nightmare based on the idea
that we are all only
physical and there's
nothing left except chemical
reactions in the brain.
Now to the degree that a culture
or a civilization or a society
would accept that view of
things, they're doomed.
They're absolutely doomed.
But now as you say, many
people are waking up
to the notion, wait a minute.
No.
We're talking spirit here.
We're talking
creative power here.
We're talking magic.
We're talking dimensions.
We're talking
multiple dimensions
of non physical reality
or physical reality
in different types of energy.
From that point of
view, you look down
at what's going on in the field
of especially psychiatry, which
is supposed to be
all about the mind,
and you see it's
completely absurd.
They have ruled out all
of this bigger picture.
So, many years ago I was working
doing some stories for "L.A.
Weekly" in Los
Angeles and I wanted
to do a story on the
Philosophical Research Society,
Manly Hall, a venerated
institution, marvelous library,
great location in Los Angeles.
>>REGINA: And brilliant man.
Beyond brilliant.
>>RAPPOPORT: The pink,
the famous pink building.
And so I went over there.
And as part of the
whole situation
I was taken on a
tour of their library
of very esoteric, philosophical,
metaphysical literature.
And then I was told, you
know, there's a vault here.
I said, no.
I didn't know that.
Well, that's where we keep
the most rare volumes.
Do you want to see it?
I said, yeah.
Let's go.
So tic tic tic tic tic.
Open the vault.
I go inside.
And there are shelves.
It's a rather small, as I
remember, circular vault.
This is maybe 20, 25 years ago.
And there are all these volumes.
And I'm thinking, I'd like
to stay here for a week
to find out what's really here.
And I see these
books sticking out
of one shelf that
are triangular.
Like a regular book
except instead of it's
regular on one side, but it
comes to a point on the other.
And you open the point and
the pages are all triangular.
And I'm looking at this and
I'm kind of in a feverish state
of mind, because
I know I've got,
like, three minutes
to be in the vault.
And the guy who's
leading me on the tour
is saying something to me that
I'm not really listening to,
because I'm looking at these
incredible cosmological
diagrams.
Very complex.
They all looked to me as
if they were done by hand.
Some with colors,
some black and white.
They show a human
figure in some of them
with all kinds of
incredible lines
and things and dimensions
happening around him, right?
And I'm thinking,
these were alchemists,
heretics during medieval times.
And I'm listening
to what he's saying.
And I'm trying to
find out, is this
a reproduction I'm
looking at or is
this the original that
somebody's found here?
And what else have you got here?
And I've got a minute
left in here, you know.
And we left.
And he didn't really have
the answers that I wanted.
And I just staggered out
of there because talk
about historical,
multi-dimensional view
of the human being, of what
an individual human being is.
This was a whole heretical
tradition obviously
going on in Europe during
the reign of the Roman church
when if you varied one
stick away from doctrine,
you would be burned
and so forth.
And the picture
that you showed me
reminded me very much of this.
Because this is the
human being displayed
in spiritual dimensions.
>>REGINA: The one we're
looking at right now,
that's how Western, modern
science views a human being.
You can't see it because
the monitor's to your back.
But that's how they view us in
terms of our mental functioning
and our personality and such.
It's basically a head with some
colored quadrants diagramming
where speech comes from,
where memory comes from.
Which of course we know
isn't even true anymore.
But now let's take
a look at the one
you were just talking about.
Because I think what
you saw may have
been even aspects of this
one that we're going to see.
Now this is just the
beginning, just a taste of it.
And it's a very
secretive diagram.
This particular one was
drawn by a man in Mexico
in the mid 1700s.
But this is the larger view
of what a human being is.
I mean, if you just
look at this, what's
happening in the center if
you could see these close up
pictures, this
draws the cosmos in.
It has angelic realms.
It has the Kabbalah.
It has astrology, all of
the cosmic influences.
And here's the signature
of the man that did this.
I've talked to many people.
No one has dared explain
the whole thing yet.
My guess is that this diagram
is passed down information
from very, very knowledgeable
secret orders that still exist
underground, that have
existed from the time
before Egypt, even into the
Atlantean period of time.
That's an understanding
of what a human being is.
>>RAPPOPORT: And this
is what the future holds
if people are willing
to wake up to this
and stop the madness
of reductionist science
that is supposed to be the
ruler of us all at all times.
This is where we're heading as
a very bad materialist society.
Where we could be heading
and where a lot of people
are waking up to is exactly
what you're showing there.
>>REGINA: Yes, that diagram
I'm sure has been well buried.
I've only talked to
one other person who's
even seen a copy of it
and became pretty obsessed
with that just even beginning
to try to comprehend what
was trying to be said in this.
And the place I
originally saw it
was a man who was a healer
of extraordinary proportions.
I mean, he could
see into the being
and he could just work
with a little energy
and it was more or less done.
And he said oddly, when
people came to his office,
no one saw it.
It was as though it was
invisible on the wall.
It didn't mean anything.
And again, isn't there this
incredible period of time
we're in right now as they
call the thinning of the veils
where our consciousness is
beginning to expand out to
where many, many of us
could be asking questions
about that diagram,
and could be seeking
those kinds of
answers for ourselves?
>>RAPPOPORT: Exactly.
And the effect that that has
a person's life, their health,
their state of mind,
their space, their energy,
their power, their
imagination, their creativity
is so enormous
that it makes all--
you look back from
that perspective.
That's what I hope people
can begin to think about.
Looking from this
multi-dimensional perspective
of what an individual
human being is,
to look now at the
culture of scientism--
not trying to say all science
is bad or anything ridiculous
like that.
But look at where these things
we've been talking about,
where these trends are
really heading here.
They're heading in the
opposite direction.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And so really it
seems from what I'm
hearing you say that our
primary responsibility is
we have to keep our minds alive.
We have to keep inquiring.
We have to keep creating.
We have to keep
stretching ourselves
to have original thought.
Because whatever it
is that seems to be--
and if anyone watched
my interview yesterday
with David Icke, we
speak of larger agendas
there-- whatever it is
that's trying to force us
down this chute
that you're talking
about to that outcome with
so few options with a species
of drugged,
compliant individuals
can only be overcome by
creativity, by thought,
by rebellion.
By what else?
We only have about a minute.
>>RAPPOPORT: By imagination.
Imagination creates reality.
So somebody's imagination
created this pseudoscience here
that we have, that we've
been talking about.
It's a perverse work of art.
You just look at it
and you say, well, yes.
OK.
I mean, if this is what you want
to do you're completely insane.
And we know now what the
real definition of insanity
is because we see
what you've done here.
It's a work of art
created by imagination.
I think that I can
create something.
I can imagine something better.
>>REGINA: Yes, as
Don Miguel Ruiz says,
you have to be the artist
that creates your own painting
on your own blank canvas.
You don't have to
buy this garbage
that we're being encouraged to.
And on that, I know
we're out of time.
And I want to thank you so much
for taking time to be here.
And I know we're going to
have another conversation down
the road.
>>RAPPOPORT: Oh, I
know we will have many.
>>REGINA: Until next time.
Thank you.
If you're like Jon and
me, you may have already
taken your health and
that of your loved ones
into your own hands.
If we're going to be forced
to go underground then
we need to know where
the resources are.
I hope you'll continue to come
here to Gaiam to learn more
about what you can do to
protect and help yourself.
We'll do everything
we can to bring you
the most pertinent information
we can toward that end.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.